Frequently asked questions:

1. What software is required to run the programs in this distribution?

Only Perl version 5.10 or newer is required, with some core Perl modules (autodie, carp, GetOpt::Long, and etc.) that are included with Perl version 5.10 or newer.

2. How do I run these programs?

Invoke each program as a standalone executable or with a path to a valid Perl interpreter.  Each program will report usage information.  For a longer explanation, consult the CLIP-seq data analysis walkthrough provided in this distribution.

3. What will I need to get started with CLIP-seq analysis?

First you need CLIP-seq mapped reads.  This is discussed in greater detail in the walkthrough.

4. Which data format(s) does this distribution support?

Currently, only BED files are supported.  Many aligners can report tab-delimited text formats that can be directly converted to BED.  Additionally, conversion from SAM format is supported by the samtools distribution, available from your favorite package manager (e.g. apt).

5. How do I request changes or get more support?

You can request changes and/or report bugs by raising an issue on github: https://github.com/bryketos/clipseq_analysis
You can also email the developer Brian Cole colebr@mail.med.upenn.edu and bryketos@gmail.com

6. Can I make a fork of this distribution and modify it?

Absolutely.  See the Copyright document for more information on the Perl license.

7. Is the Clipseq.pm module available on CPAN?

Currently this code is only available as a standalone distribution with executables and the Clipseq.pm module in one convient-to-use repository.  This may be subject to change in future releases.

8. Does this code work for iCLIP or PAR-CLIP?

This code was developed specifically for CLIP-seq analysis.  Analysis of other experiments related to CLIP-seq, such as iCLIP and PAR-CLIP is not supported, however components of the pipeline may be applicable.  Please consider iCLIP and PAR-CLIP as unsupported by this distribution.

9. What other tools will I find useful?

As documented in the walkthrough provided with this distribution, the bedtools and samtools distributions are quite useful.  Additionally, alignment software is needed to map raw CLIP-seq reads.  Genome browsers such as the UCSC genome browser are essential visualization tools and highly recommended for CLIP-seq analysis.
